In this lesson we are going to be setting up the JPA model. Now JPA is Java persistence API and basically
JPA is what Hibernate has written to so that's as the API specification that Hibernate has written to.
Underneath the covers,
we will be using Hibernate. Now the mapping and stuff,
I have a whole section in the course on mapping.
We're going to go through this fairly quick as far as setting up the JPA entities that we will be using
in this section of the course.
But keep in mind that there's like entire courses on Hibernate and JPA. We are gonna go
through it and just show you the facts.
Now underneath we are going to be setting up to POJOs, Plain Old Java Objects. Just objects with properties
getters and setters.
So no big mystery there at all.
And let me show you the data model. We are going to use a very simple model.
I'm going to jump over it and show you what's called an entity relationship diagram. Going to be using
GPL studio. Kind of neat little tool for mapping things out.
And I'm just going to do a demonstration so you can start to envision the data model we are building
in this section of the course. Okay, up on the screen here.
I have what's called JDL studio. So this is from the
JHipster project.
Actually a pretty cool project.
J.
JHipster is way beyond the scope of the discourse but I do have a course that utilizes
JHipster. Here what we're doing is just using it for the modelings. I want to demonstrate what we are
going to be building going forward.
So we're gonna have to POJOs that we're going to work with. One is author and it's going to have a first
name and a last name, and the other is book and that's just gonna have a title and ISBN. An
ISBN is the universal identifier for books that are published. A number that they get like a UPC
code. You can see there right above book.
There's the asterisk underscore asterisk that means this is a Many to Many relationship.
So a book is gonna have many authors and the author can have many books.
So that's all.
All that means. So we will be setting this up as a many to many relationship within JPA and we'll be completing
this mapping.
But first we need to actually create these as POJOs. Okay.
Book author.
This is a classic diagramming example as far as working through any relationship mappings.
What we're going to do now is jump over to IntelliJ and I'm going to implement these POJOs for
us.
What we want to do here is go ahead and set up our two  POJOs. So I can see on screen here. We readjust this
a little bit. I'm going to come in here and I'm going to create a new package.
I'll Just call this domain.
Usually the JPA entities you need to put them in a package called domain or model. Either is acceptable. Then
your organization may have a different standard that is just something that I see roughly in the industry
quite often. So let's come in here and we'll create a new Java class. Say author. And this is gonna have
say string
So I have a last name.
And then also we'll do a set and we want to do
you can see the books does not exist yet.
We definitely don't want that auto import. Let me do this.
So I've got IntelliJ set up to automatically managed my imports.
And in this case it's misbehaving on me.
So let's come in here.
I'm going to created new Java class book. Add that. I can come back over here and get rid of this guy. Now our book that
is going to have a title.
So that sets up our POJOs.
Now it's come in here.
We want to add in a constructor for this and let's do all properties and JPA does require a zero args
constructor.
So select none.
And then also we was set up getters and setters and IntelliJ  can automatically generate this.
So what I've been doing is to bring up this menu and just do command N and now I'm just going to say
getters and setters and we want all those.
And now we can see that IntelliJ created all this code for us and let's go in and do the same
thing for book.
and take all the properties.
I almost forgot to add an author's to this.
So it's come back up here.
That's going to be a set. My mistake.
Book can I have more than one author. Now the command N
do all the properties and also no argsconstructor. In here say select none and then come down here and
I'm also going to go in and add in getters and setters and we want to do all the properties like so.
You can see that we've generated the codes for all the getters and setters.
So that is our two POJOs. Very simple setup and these are the objects that we will be persisting
into the database with JPA.
You can see we have a very simple implementation of a couple POJOs. No big mystery there if you're not
familiar with Java programming language.
Now what we need to do is give these ID values.
So we are going to make these into JPA entities here in this section. And this is the one thing about
JPA. It is ORM, Object Relational Mapping tool. And always, when you get into some type of mapping, typically
you're going to see what's called leakage.
So here we need to give JPA an identity value that is assigned to these classes so it knows how to store these
into the database and retrieve them from the database.
So this is typically what we call it as a leakage because now we have our pure object model.
Now the identity value that is going to be leaking up into our object model. But just making you aware of
some of the terminology around here.
This is necessary stuff that we need to go through as far as configuring the JPA entities to make them entities.
So I'm going to jump over to IntelliJ now and show you how to make these POJOs into official
fully fledged JPA entities that can be persisted by Hibernate to a database.
So we want to do in this video is go ahead and make our POJOs into actual official JPA entities.
So the first thing they will do is annotate the class with the entity annotation. You can see that
is coming out of the Javax persistence package.
So now this tells Hibernate that this is an entity and we can see that this is upset because we don't
have a primary key.
So we want to do is come in here.
Well had a new private property long.
Now the key properties can be several different data types and we'll talk more about that later in the
course.
Now what we want to do is annotate this as the ID That's how the Javax persistence package.
And we need to tell Hibernate how it is getting generated.
So we have the same strategy generation type auto.
And what this means is that the underlying database is going to be providing the generation of this.
So if you're familiar with databases like MySQL, it has an automatic ID generation so that's
what we're saying is that the property is going to be managed by the database the database will be assigning
that ID.
Now of course this is a private property.
No way to access it.
So let's come down here and also add in getters and setters for the ID property.
And that completes the author class.
Now we need to do the same thing for book.
So let's come in here. Entity.
And annotate that with the ID.
Generated value and then strategy, generation type auto, and then we also have to come up here.
Let's get them to the other constructor there. And we will add in the getters and setters for the ID property.
So that completes the annotations that are needed to set this up as an official JPA entity.
Now what we need to do is assign relationships. So obviously our author can have many books and books
can have more than one author.
So we are going to be used what's called a Many to Many relationship.
This does get a little tricky to setup.
Don't worry if you don't understand everything.
I have entire section doing mapping coming up in the course so we will be exploring mappings
much more coming up in the course. But here what we want to do is just establish the basic mappings. We'll
step through this and show you how to establish a Many to Many relationship between authors and books.
In this video what we want to do is go ahead and define the relationships between books and authors and we
are going to do a Many to Many relationship.
So let's come over here to author and what we want to do is on the books property we are going to say
this is a Many to Many relationship and we are going to say it's mapped by authors like so. We can see
that this is not. It's giving us a warning here that that is not completed and we have to complete the other
side of it.
So let's come back over to book and this time it's going to be a little bit more complicated.
What we will do is say at many to many and now what we're going to do is set up what's called a join
table. This gets a little complicated and I do cover this more in an upcoming lesson.
So we want to say @JoinTable
So underneath in the database so we can envision, we're going to have a table for author and table
for book and we are going to use a join table called author book that is going to hold the relationship
between records and the author table and records and the book table.
So that's what we are setting up here. @JoinColumns is here.
And inverseJoinColumn. I know mapping is probably a little confusing.
This probably one of the hardest ones to map is this Many to Many relationship.
And what thiss mapping is doing this is setting up the properties within the JoinTable.
And we can see IntelliJ is saying can't find column author I.D. so you can see below that assigned data
sources. What IntelliJ can do is inspect the database and I don't have a setup for that.
So that's why that is complaining.
So let's just do a quick recap on this.
So here on the author POJO, I am saying that it has a many to many relationship to books and it is going
to be mapped by authors.
So here I'm saying map by authors. In the book object, I have that property authors.
So that is the set and I also have a many to many relationship here.
But now here I am saying join table. This configure set join table. So I know we covered a lot
in this video here as far as the mapping.
Again I have an entire section on setting up these mappings and hopefully make that a little more clear
here but this is setting up the relationships between author and book. And now we'll be able to move forward
and start working with these objects within JPA.